# Themes

The 2019 Working Group Report describes seven _course themes_ for cloud courses. 

The current description of these themes is below.  When the report is published, these will be updated.

- *Data Focused*  
Concerned with the migration of data to the cloud. In some cases this involves lift and shift, 
where an existing traditional database server hosting the data such as Microsoft SQL Server or 
IBM DB2 is virtualized and hosted in the cloud. It can also involve porting of existing data of 
this type to cloud hosted storage such as NoSQL Tables or to Blob storage. In addition it can 
involve the storage using cloud storage technology of newly gather data generated by a cloud-hosted 
application or externally connected system or device.
- *Application Focused*
Concerned with the migration of applications to the cloud. In some cases this involves lift and shift 
where an existing application hosted in an application server such as Microsoft IIS or IBM Websphere 
is deployed to a cloud hosted version of that server. It can also involve the porting of existing 
applications to the cloud using application specific cloud services technology such as Azure App 
Services or IBM Cloud Foundry. In addition, it can involve the creation of completely new applications 
in the cloud using these technologies.
- *Process Focused*
Concerned with using cloud technology to support the software engineering process. Typical cloud based 
services used are GitHub for version control, Jenkins for Continuous Integration / Continuous Deployment,
Docker for deployment containers, Artefact repositories such as Artifactory, container orchestration 
services such as Kubernetes and instrumentation, monitoring and diagnostic services. Also includes 
detailed coverage of process approaches such as Scrum, XP and Agile. Modules with this theme are 
often concerned with DevOps and are often focused on specific vendor cloud services such as Microsoft 
DevOps and IBM DevOps Services.
- *Analytics/ML Focused*
Concerned with the use of the cloud to support data analytics and machine learning using available 
 frameworks. Vendor specific offerings such as IBM Watson, Azure Analytics Services, Microsoft 
 Azure Machine Learning Studio, and IBM Watson Studio are often covered in detail. Also involves 
 coverage of AI and Machine Learning theoretical underpinnings. 
- *Cloud-Native Focused*
Concerned with cloud-hosted services that support DevOps as covered in the process-focused theme 
as well as employing [the Twelve Factor App methodology](https://12factor.net/) in the 
construction of applications. In addition cloud native employs cloud PaaS services, multi cloud and microservices.
- *Security Focused*
Concerned with the cyber security and cross-cutting security analysis and practices that are 
important to secure cloud infrastructure, applications and data. Covers traditional security 
technology and its implementation using cloud specific technologies as well as security 
features provided by specific cloud vendors.
- *Infrastructure Focused*
Concerned with the coverage of virtualization, Cloud Software Stack, Networking etc. provided by 
cloud vendors. Typical courses are heavily focused on High Performance Computing (HPC), 
Internet of Things (IoT) and networking.
